we have placed 10 newborns prematurely
born babies on on one bed because these
children they need a particular
temperature they need a particular
respiration and ventilators particular
nutrition they need High medical care
now they are in a very perilous and
precarious situation now the risk of the
entire power outage going from the
entire hospital this will be a great
threat we are talking about prematurely
born babies weighing between 800 to
2,000 Gams such ways require very
Intensive Care Unit and we have lost two
kids so far there are shocking images I
have them unfortunately I don't have
internet connection to show them because
the occupation has severed uh internet
connection on all uh channels of
communication okay so just to reiterate
what you're telling us doctor there were
39 newborn babies prematurely born in
incubators and two of them have now died
after being taken out of their
incubators can you tell us exactly why
they've been taken out of those
incubators is it because of a lack of
electricity because of a lack of
fuel due to lack of fuel that generates
power and electricity to the incubators
without fuel we can't function we can't
operate and there will be no electricity
these incubators are powered by
electricity at a particular temperature
and oxygen supplies have been hit that
feed these incubators therefore they
died due to three reasons low
temperature lack of
oxygen uh they died therefore now what
we are doing is that we are warming
these children using primitive methods
we inject inject and place them or
surround them with warm water and cover
them in order to warm them up however
this situation can't continue for
long has anyone offered to has we
understand that this is not sustainable
has anyone offered to help with these
babies we communicated with
International Red Cross they gave us
permission to move them from one place
to another within one hour that's that's
the only thing that the Red Cross was
able to do we we requested protection
for these children and protection for
all patients in the Intensive Care Unit
however they told us that you have only
one hour to remove these children from
one place to another now we place the
children in a very unhealthy uh places
that is not conducive to their condition
these children were born after less than
S months of pregnancy weighing less than
2,000 grams they need very very very
high um Medical Care they are left in
normal room a regular room regular beds
without the needed requirements and
accommodation for uh prematurely born
babies they need particular temperature
particular
ventilators uh particular nutrition
particular type of milk all these are
lacking now now we are struggling to
save their lives using primitive methods
using manual simple methods but however
this is very unsustainable and I say
that this place we have electricity
until the morning only once electricity
is out these children will die will die
just like the previous two Dr Salia the
Israeli military has said that they've
offered to evacuate these babies out of
Al shifa hospital is this the
case that is not the case at all I am in
touch with them they contacted me I
offered them I told them that I have
patients and I have uh babies incub
incubators and I need them to I need to
remove them to a safe place I offered
this but they didn't respond I requested
to evacuate them using es to Safe places
safe places means another hospital we
can't leave them like they did with ar
hospital when they told the children to
go wherever you can this will not happen
with children in incubators in this way
children will die on the way we want
safe exit with with safe and secure
medical supervision to arrive to safely
to another hospital now all the
hospitals in Gaza Strip in in the North
and South cannot receive this High
number of children in incubators we are
demanding from the entire world from
your uh platform we need to take them
out safely using safe ambulances and
incubators and that's exactly what I
want to ask you Dr Salia there are very
few functioning medical facilities left
in Gaza after one month of Israeli
bombardment if you are able to organize
the safe passage for these new newborn
babies to get them the care they need
where can they go are you saying that
they will need to leave Gaza to get the
care they
need exactly exactly now in Gaza and the
northern of Gaza there is no place not a
single medical facility even arantis
pediatrics hospital they have been
completely closed they can't receive any
cases so where to go with these children
do we throw them out in the street this
will not happen we will stay with them
until they are secured safely and I
reiterate they need to be secured and
transported to a safe place using safe
ambulances with with safe uh ventilators
safe uh medical staff to a safe
destination if this is these guarantees
are offered by the Red Cross we will do
this because we will not let our
children die on the street